the Munich security conference wraps up
on Sunday after three days of
discussions on pressing Global issues
Israel's war on Gaza and the war on
Ukraine dominated the agenda world
leaders have urged Israel to allow much
needed humanitarian Aid to enter Gaza
let's bring in our correspondent step
vson who's joining us live from Munich
so the final day of the Gathering step
what's been
achieved well a lot of talks here and of
course the the main ISS issues are the
war on Ukraine lots of talks on Russia
of course the death of opposition leader
naali has also over overshadowed the
first part of the meetings and yesterday
a lot of uh uh talk also on the war on
Gaza and I'm joined here by one of the
key players prime minister of the
Palestinian Authority Mr Muhammad ster
thank you so much for joining us in the
program um there was a lot of talk on
Ukraine dominating the talks here at the
con conference right how much did you
achieve to get the Gaza issue the
Palestinian issue here on the
agenda well uh of course today Palestine
is also the center of gravity even
though Palestine is not in Europe but
still Europeans and Internationals are
very much concerned of what Israeli
crimes and Israeli genocide that is
taking place in Palestine in particular
in Gaza so uh we made our voice loud and
clear whether through our bilateral
negotiations talks or through the banel
that I've just given uh to uh the
audience here uh we have made it very
clear that we want an immediate
ceasefire and we want an entry to
International Aid into Gaza not only
limited to one entry point but through
all the entry points because all what
goes into Gaza now is only 8% of what
the people need so the audience here
which is very important audience they
have he our voice as I said loud and
clear and we have said also that sorry
to interrupt but the the prime minister
of Qatar yesterday said that there was
some setback in the talks about an
imminent ceasefire do you have a feeling
that there is a a lack of of urgency
here uh in in Munich among the leaders
who have been
Gathering the issue is that it's not
anymore that any one of these people who
are here can exert serious pressure on
Israel to stop the war and not only that
but we have seen the icj did not they
cannnot or they don't want to both both
but on top of which that the Israeli
Prime Minister is not listening to
anybody including his very close allies
and therefore Israel obviously wanted to
continue the genocide war that it is
conducting in Gaza Netanyahu himself he
has a visted interest to keep the war as
long as possible because for his
personal survival and that is what we
have he quite a number of analysts quite
a number of leaders who have been
sharing the same analysis that we do and
therefore Israel has to be forced
ceasefire not only that but you force
Israel by not simply continue providing
Israel with machine guns with weapons
with finances and so on those who are
really concerned of putting an end to
the atrocities that are taking place in
Gaza they should take Serious measures
not only lip service not only statements
but the pressure on Israel could be much
higher if there was more a unified
response especially also from from
European nations I just spoke to the
foreign minister of Belgium for example
she described it as being very
frustrating to talk to her colleagues in
Europe and and there there's still no
Unity on their stands against Israel cor
that's right there is no Unity there
something you can do about it as as the
prime minister of the Palestinian author
yes there is no unity in Europe and not
only that United States has continued to
support Israel and United States very
unfortunately is planning to use a veto
on Tuesday to block an alerian proposal
to call forces SE fire United States has
not been calling for ceasefire and
obviously United States wants to give
Israel every Green Light to continue all
these atrocities that Israel is
committing against our people in in Gaza
the Europeans I don't say that they are
divided there are different point of
views but I think everybody calls for an
immediate Bose of fighting and so on we
don't want only a Bose and for us is not
only enough to bring food into Gaza it
is and it is urgent to bring food but
what is the point of providing somebody
dinner and then killing him in the
morning so we need International Aid
that goes into Gaza should be hand inand
with ending the genocide and the killing
that Israel is conducting against our
people but all key players have been
here in the last three days right if
this is the message you're going to take
home without any real resolution for the
people suffering in Gaza especially in
Rafa right now what are you going to
tell your people well we continue to
fight and and we continue to struggle
and we continue to hold our message and
we continue to talk to people because at
the end of the day it's not only the
international public opinion who makes
things it's these leaders who are here
and as I said and they're not doing it
well they have not been able to for the
first time Israel is actually violating
every Rules of Engagement every every
international law every single article
in international law every single
article in international humanitarian
law and it is a bity that the best ally
for Israel that is United States has not
been able to deliver Israel on one hand
and also nanahu is not listening to his
big boss President Biden he is not
listening to anybody and that is where
Israel the International Community
should deal with Israel in a totally
different way Israel should be put under
sanctions in order for Israel to stop
this aggression genocide against our
people and end occupation that has been
there quite a number of people who are
here they only focus on October 7 yes
October 7 is a major event but the
Palestinian suffering did not start in
October 7 Palestinians have been
suffering for the last 75 years you got
that message across at least loud and
clear that's what we have been telling
the people that we need an end to the
struggle not only don't deal with the
Cosmetics you should deal with the roots
of the problem and the roots of the
problem is Israeli occupation it's not
our tanks that is surrounding T Aviv
it's Israeli tanks that is occupying
Gaza is Israeli tanks that's in the
Heart of the City of ramala in every
single refugee camp in every single
Village and that should end the word
frustration I mentioned it already what
what what feeling are you going to bring
home is it frustration as well or no we
never get frustrated we are angry yes
and our people they want a way out yes
but this is the cycle of struggle palas
have been in this for the last 75 years
and it is time that the International
Community help us to end the conflict
Israel should not be given all the time
the greenest of the green light that is
what is encouraging Israel to continue
committing these crimes is this the
support by certain capitals this support
should stop and these people should
understand that Israel does not listen
Israel needs to be heard through
sanctions and that's the only way thank
you so much for sharing your views here
prime minister of the Palestinian
Authority thank you for having me we are
wrapping up this uh this talks here at
the security conference in Munich in a
few hours there will be the closing uh
St statements and ceremony and yeah as
we heard there is no breakthrough or any
real uh news coming from the conference
but at least people have been talking to
each other here again right step thank
you for that step vson live in Munich